adding backup and restore topics to 2.1 (#4068)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/backup-and-restore/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
beta: false
navigationTitle: Back up and restore
title: Back up and restore
excerpt: Back up and restore Kommander data and the Konvoy cluster
menuWeight: 14
---

Kommander stores all data as CRDs in the Kubernetes API and can be backed up and restored using the [standard Konvoy documentation][konvoy-backup].

<div class="message--note" style="margin-top: 20px;">
<p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><strong>NOTE: </strong><code>kubecost</code>, that installs with Kommander, has the following storage requirements:</p>
<ul style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 0px;">
<li><code>cost-analyzer</code>: 0.2Gi</li>
<li><code>prometheus</code>: 32Gi</li>
<li><code>alertmanager</code>: 2Gi</li>
</ul>

> </div>

Reviewer: I think this was here because ... this was new at some time? I forget exactly why this is here. Probably can cut this.

Any objections @gracedo ?

---
layout: layout.pug
beta: false
navigationTitle: Back up and restore
title: Back up and restore
excerpt: Back up and restore Kommander data and the Konvoy cluster
menuWeight: 14
---

For production clusters, regular maintenance should include routine back up operations to ensure data integrity and reduce the risk of data loss due to unexpected events.
Back up operations should include the cluster state, application state, and the running configuration of both stateless and stateful applications in the cluster.

> Kommander stores all data as CRDs in the Kubernetes API and can be backed up and restored using the [standard Konvoy documentation][konvoy-backup].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kommander stores all data as CRDs in the Kubernetes API and you can back up and restore it using the [standard Konvoy documentation][konvoy-backup].
```

<div class="message--note" style="margin-top: 20px;">
<p style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 0px;"><strong>NOTE: </strong><code>kubecost</code>, that installs with Kommander, has the following storage requirements:</p>
<ul style="margin-top: 10px; margin-bottom: 0px;">
<li><code>cost-analyzer</code>: 0.2Gi</li>
<li><code>prometheus</code>: 32Gi</li>
<li><code>alertmanager</code>: 2Gi</li>
</ul>
</div>

# Velero

DKP provides Velero by default, to support backup and restore operations for your Kubernetes clusters and persistent volumes.

For on-premises deployments, DKP deploys Velero integrated with [Minio][minio], operating inside the same cluster.

> For production use-cases, D2iQ advises to provide an *external* storage class to use with [Minio][minio].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For production use-cases, D2iQ advises that you provide an *external* storage class to use with [Minio][minio].
```

With the external storage class, you can configure Velero in `cluster.yaml`  as follows:

```yaml
- name: velero
  enabled: true
  values: |-
     minio:
      persistence:
         storageClass: <external storage class name>
```

> You may also store your backups in Amazon S3 by configuring Velero in `cluster.yaml`  as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also store your backups in Amazon S3 by configuring Velero in `cluster.yaml`  as follows:
```

        config:
          region: <AWS_REGION> # such as us-west-2
          s3ForcePathStyle: "false"
          insecureSkipTLSVerify: "false"
          s3Url: ""
    credentials:
      # With the proper IAM permissions with access to the S3 bucket,
      # you can attach the EC2 instances the IAM Role, OR fill in `existingSecret` OR `secretContents` below.
      #
      # Name of a pre-existing secret (if any) in the Velero namespace
      # that should be used to get IAM account credentials.
      existingSecret:
      # The key must be named `cloud`, and the value corresponds to the entire content of your IAM credentials file.
      # Here is a list of documentation for plugins maintained by the Velero team:
      # [AWS] https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-aws/blob/main/README.md
      secretContents: {}
        # cloud: |
        #   [default]
        #   aws_access_key_id=<REDACTED>
        #   aws_secret_access_key=<REDACTED>
```

## Install the Velero command-line interface

Although installing the Velero command-line interface is optional and independent of deploying a DKP cluster, having access to the command-line interface provides several benefits.

> For example, you can use the Velero command-line interface to back up or restore a cluster on demand, or to modify certain settings without changing the Velero  configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can use the Velero command-line interface to back up or restore a cluster on demand, or to modify certain settings without changing the Velero configuration.
```

By default, Konvoy sets up Velero to use Minio over TLS using a self-signed certificate.

> Due to this, when using certain commands, you may be asked to use the `--insecure-skip-tls-verify` flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, when using certain commands, you may be asked to use the `--insecure-skip-tls-verify` flag.
```

Again, the default setup is not suitable for production use-cases.

See the instructions to [install the Velero command-line interface][velero-cli-install] for more information.

## Enable or disable Velero

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Before disabling Velero, be sure you have a recent backup that you can use to restore the cluster in the event that there is a problem converting to the new backup service.</p>

You can enable Velero using the following settings in the `ClusterConfiguration` section of the `cluster.yaml` file:

```yaml
addons:
- name: velero
  enabled: true
...
```

If you want to replace Velero with a different backup service, you can disable `velero` by modifying the `ClusterConfiguration` section of the `cluster.yaml` file as follows:

```yaml
addons:
- name: velero
  enabled: false
...
```

> Before disabling the Velero platform service addon, however, be sure you have a recent backup that you can use to restore the cluster in the event that there is a problem converting to the new backup service.

Reviewer 2: Redundant with the Note provided just after the heading.

After making changes to your `cluster.yaml`, you must run `konvoy up` to apply them to the running cluster.

## Regular backup operations

> For production clusters, you should be familiar with the following basic administrative functions Velero provides:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For backing up production clusters, you should be familiar with the following basic administrative functions Velero provides:
```

- [Set a backup schedule][set-schedule]
- [Run on-demand backups][backup-on-demand]
- [Restore from a backup archive][restore-a-cluster]

### Set a backup schedule

By default, DKP configures a regular, automatic backup of the cluster's state in Velero.
The default settings do the following:

> - create backups on a daily basis

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create daily backups
```

> - save the data from all namespaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Save the data from all namespaces
```

These default settings take effect after the cluster is created.
If you install Konvoy with the default platform services deployed, the initial backup starts after the cluster is successfully provisioned and ready for use.

#### Alternate backup schedules

The Velero CLI provides an easy way to create alternate backup schedules.

> For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can use a command similar to:
```

Creating a backup for a specific namespace can be useful for clusters running multiple apps operated by multiple teams.
For example:

```bash
velero create schedule system-critical --include-namespaces=kube-system,kube-public,kubeaddons --schedule="@every 24h"
```

The Velero command line interface provides many more options worth exploring. You can also find tutorials for [disaster recovery][velero-dr] and [cluster migration][velero-cm] on the Velero community site.

### Back up on demand

In some cases, you might find it necessary create a backup outside of the regularly-scheduled interval.
For example, if you are preparing to upgrade any components or modify your cluster configuration, you should perform a backup immediately before taking that action.

Create a backup by running the following command:

```shell
velero backup create BACKUP_NAME
```

### Restore a cluster

Before attempting to restore the cluster state using the Velero command-line interface, you should verify the following requirements:

- The backend storage, Minio, is still operational.
- The Velero platform service in the cluster is still operational.

> - The Velero platform service must be set to a `restore-only-mode` to avoid having backups run while restoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Velero platform service is set to a `restore-only-mode` to avoid having backups run while restoring.
```

To list the available backup archives for your cluster, run the following command:

```shell
velero backup get
```

To set Velero to a `restore-only-mode`, modify the Velero addon in the `ClusterConfiguration` of the `cluster.yaml` file:

```yaml
addons:
...
- name: velero
  enabled: true
  values: |-
    configuration:
      restoreOnlyMode: true
...
```

> Then you may apply the configuration change by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you can apply the configuration change by running:
```

```shell
konvoy deploy addons -y

> ```

Reviewer 3: This section needs to be reworked, not sure exactly how you would change the config here, it's possibly the same procedure as I showed above for setting the aws backupStorageLocation.

Finally, check your deployment to verify that the configuration change was applied correctly:

```shell

> helm get values velero-kubeaddons

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
helm get values -n kommander velero
```
